We finished our form in its basic form
but time to add some validation to it.
We do add validation of course in our TypeScript code.
Right now, there is no validation attached to any of the controls and that is not really the behavior
I want. When we initialize the form here, at the end of init form, for the name for example, I want to add a
built-in validator,
so from the validators package which we need to import from @angular/forms,
so from this package, I want to add the required validator. Don't execute it, don't add parentheses,
you only want to pass a reference to this validator so that Angular is able to execute this method at
the time it validates the input.
Now the image path, that should also be required,
so I'll repeat the procedure here, add required,
don't execute it and I'll copy it because I also want to require the description. For the ingredients,
when we create a new ingredient here, the name should also be required and the amount, here I'm going
to add two checks. The first one is that it's required,
the second element here actually is the pattern validator
and here we can copy the pattern we use in the shopping edit component,
this regular expression here is the same expression I want to validate here, that we only have positive
numbers, here in pattern, you'll simply pass a regular expression by putting two forward slashes and
in-between, your expression, without any quotation marks here.
So that is the pattern and we do execute this method because this acts like the factory,
it gives us back the configured validator then which will be used by Angular but to configure it, we need
to pass an argument, right,
we need to tell that what should be our pattern. So those are the validators for a new FormControl in the
array, for the new amount control I should say,
let's also copy that to the onAddIngredient method or we also create a new formArray, FormGroup.
So here, I will set the default values to null and then also add my validators
and the same for the name, should have an empty default value
and then here, just the required validator.
So now validation should be added to the form successful and to use it, I will disable the save button
if the form is not valid.
So I will bind to disabled and check if recipe form is not valid.
Well let's see. If this reloads, we should see
that the save button gets disabled I would say but we've got a valid form here,
so let's empty the name and it's disabled,
that looks good.
Let's now empty the description, disabled the URL, disabled or any control here,
so the name of this ingredient or maybe a number or a negative number, so that all seems to work, the
validation state is successfully taken into account.
Now to finish the validation, I'll go to my CSS sheet and I want to mark invalid inputs.
Now we get this handy ng-invalid class which is added to anything which is invalid
and that's the problem,
if I add a border of let's say one pixel solid and red,
well watch for yourself.
If I remove that, not only is the name input field invalid, the whole form is,
so the whole form has this ugly border.
Well we can simply change this to assign ng or assign this class, this style I should say only to
elements without the ng-invalid class but which also are an input or optionally, to be very explicit
here, a text area in our case here with ng-invalid. So with this,
now we should make sure that if I remove this, only the box itself receives the red border. To prevent
this from having the red border right from the start,
I'll also add ng-touched here as a check or as a class which has to be present so that we at least
had to click into that control to mark it as invalid.
You will see what I mean if I add a new recipe,
everything is clean,
if I click in here and out of there, now it has the red border.
So that is validation working as it looks to me,
now let's make sure that we can actually submit a form and save it or successfully update it.